DOC-1860: 6.4 Enterprise Docs release (#2655)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.4-release-notes.adoc

= TinyMCE 6.4
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.4
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.4
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes
:page-toclevels: 1

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.4 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, March 15^th^, 2023. It includes {productname} 6.4, additional changes to Premium plugins, and a new Premium plugin, Advanced Template. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.4:

* xref:new-premium-plugin[New Premium Plugin]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-end-of-life-announcement[Accompanying Premium Plugin end-of-life announcement]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvement[Improvement]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]

> // * xref:security-fixes[Security fixes] -- leave until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.
> // * xref:known-issues[Known issues] -- leave until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.
> // NB: edit the equivalent section of nav.adoc when the remove or make visible decision is made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]
```
Now that there is a known issues section, this should reflect that.

[[new-premium-plugin]]
== New Premium Plugin

> === Advanced Template 1.1.0
> 
> The {productname} 6.4 release includes the release of a new premium plugin: **Advanced Templates**.
> 
> The **Advanced Template** Premium plugin enables the creation of complex, interactive templates using {productname}.
> 
> Templates are declared as `const` variables that can be setup as part of a {productname} instance.
> 
> They can also be added to a {productname} instance by end-users selecting content in a {productname} document and saving the selection as a template via the {productname} user-interface.
> 
> For information on the **Advanced Template** plugin, see: xref:advanced-template.adoc[Advanced Templates].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Advanced Template 1.1.0

The {productname} 6.4 release includes the release of a new premium plugin: **Advanced Template**.

The **Advanced Template** Premium plugin enables the creation of complex, interactive templates using {productname}.

Templates are declared as `const` variables that can be setup as part of a {productname} instance.

They can also be added to a {productname} instance by end-users selecting content in a {productname} document and saving the selection as a template via the {productname} user-interface.

For information on the **Advanced Template** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc[Advanced Template].
```
The plugin name is Advanced Template, however the working adoc file is `advanced-templates.adoc`, which cannot be changed as it is already referenced in the help dialog in 6.4

[[accompanying-premium-plugin-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Plugin changes

The following premium plugin updates were released alongside {productname} 6.4.

=== Advanced Typography 1.1.1

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Advanced Typography** premium plugin.

**Advanced Typography** 1.1.1 includes the following fixes, additions, and improvements.

=== Fixed adding redundant space between a comma and a quote by switching the sequence of executing safe and unsafe rules
// TINY-9442

> After {productname} introduced the Smart Typography plugin, a bug was discovered that was causing a space to be introduced between a comma and a closing double-quote mark, as shown in the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After {productname} introduced the **Advanced Typography** plugin, a bug was discovered that was causing a space to be introduced between a comma and a closing double-quote mark, as shown in the example below:
```

.Example
> “They went that way,[space introduced here]” he said as he pointed.

As demonstrated in the example above, an unintentional or redundant space was inserted into a separate node position.

{productname} fixed the issue by changing the sequence of executing safe and unsafe rules surrounding Typography.

In {productname} version 6.4, the Smart Typography plugin no longer creates a space between a comma and a closing double-quote mark.

=== Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks
// TINY-9398		

An issue was discovered that affected the typography plugin in previous versions of {productname} when inserting content into the editor. Specifically, the issue involved exclamation marks and the spaces between them, such as in the example `“Hello! !“`. This issue prevented the editor from removing the spaces between the double *exclamation marks* `! !` after executing the typography plugin toolbar or menubar button.

> The fix for this involved adding a new rule which removes the spaces between exclamation marks when the typography button is pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is described in the next line

In {productname} 6.4, spaces are now removed between exclamation marks `!!` for formatted HTML documents when the typography plugin is used. To learn more about Advanced Typography and how to add this new premium plugin to your project, please refer xref:advanced-typography.adoc[Advanced Typography].

> === Added typography plugin to the default menubar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Added **Advanced Typography** to the default menubar
```
Plugins themselves aren't UI components

// TINY-9450		

> In previous versions of {productname}, the typography button would *not* appear in the `menubar` by default. As a consequence, the user could only `find` the typography button in the `toolbar` due to it not appearing in the `menubar` dropdown.
> 
> To correct this bug, the typography plugin was added to the default `menubar` config.
> 
> {productname} 6.4, by default, will now display the typography button in both the `toolbar` and below the “Source code" button in the `menubar`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous version of {productname}, the typography menu item was *not* available in the `**Tools**` menu from the `menubar` by default.

In {productname} 6.4, the typography menu item will display in the `**Tools**` menu by default, given that the `typography_default_lang` option is set.
```
Typography was only available in 6.3, so the previous version. The typography button was only visible from the toolbar if it was added to the toolbar, not by default. The menu item was added as a default to the tools menu in the menubar. In 6.4 the typography button will still not display in the toolbar by default. In 6.4 the typography menu item will only display by default in the tools menu from the menu bar if the `typography_default_lang` option is set, as it is required for the plugin.

=== Typography button and menu item will be disabled if editor has no content
// TINY-9441

> In previous versions of {productname}, the typography plugin button would render to the toolbar when the editor contained no content.
> 
> As a consequence of this, users would be able to apply the typography button features to an editor that contained no physical content.
> 
> As a fix, {productname} added some new improvements to the Advanced Typography plugin that now disables the users ability to apply the plugin and use its features, when the editor content value returns as `empty`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous version of {productname}, the typography toolbar button would be enabled when the editor contained no content.

As a consequence of this, when users clicked the button while the editor was empty, the notification `'Document Typography has been enhanced'` would display unexpectedly.

In {productname}, the typography toolbar button is now disabled when the editor is empty.
```
The button will always render when added to the toolbar (and `typography_default_lang` is set), however the issue was that it was enabled when the editor was empty, allowing it to be pressed when it "shouldn't". The fix was to specifically disable the button when the editor was empty, not prevent the "ability to apply the plugin and use its features", since the command that the button executes can still be executed by itself when the editor is empty.

> In {productname} 6.4, applying the typography button to an empty editor, will no longer be possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Already documented by the lines above.

For information on the **Advanced Typography** plugin, see: xref:advanced-typography.adoc[Advanced Typography].

> ////
> Be wary of the version number listed above.
> 
> To quote my [comment, left on the TinyMCE 6.4 BoM][0] in Notion:
> 
> > Given the five changes in the Unreleased section of the Advanced
> > Typography plugin’s [changelog][1], is it sensible to assume this plugin
> > is getting a version bump?
> 
> [0]: <https://notion.so/TinyMCE-6-4-Bill-of-materials-BOM-885a34e3b9884be0b69cd30eba7c618b?d=5267c02d507140c2882a18c2a9c7c753#0067a51f89bc45f1a99cc1b80a6e7a39>
> 
> [1]: <https://github.com/tinymce/typography/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>
> ////

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
There's nothing in the unreleased section any more, the current release (in 6.4.1) is version 1.1.0 of advanced typography, as is visible in the changelog.
I can see multiple comments in this file regarding "Unreleased" items in premium plugins, though they are all likely released with the correct new version numbers by now.

> this year][13] have been dependabot bumps or back-end changes.

[11]: <https://notion.so/TinyMCE-6-4-Bill-of-materials-BOM-885a34e3b9884be0b69cd30eba7c618b?d=40e8ab59323f4319bfbb83898a3fe18c#0c32239916564963850ca08c2ab4f112>

[12]: <https://github.com/tinymce/powerspell/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[13]: <https://github.com/tinymce/powerspell/commits/main>
////

For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Introduction to Spell Checker Pro].

=== Advanced Code Editor 3.2.1
// bforte this is related to https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-1907
////
To quote my [comment, left on the TinyMCE 6.4 BoM][11] in Notion

> What changes were made to the Advanced Code Premium plugin? The
> [changelog][12] contains the below:
> New button to copy the current dialog content. #TINY-9525
> New buttons to increase and decrease the font size in the dialog. #TINY-9526
> New button to toggle dark mode. #TINY-9527
> New button to toggle fullscreen. #TINY-9529

[14]: <https://github.com/tinymce/advcode/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[15]: <https://github.com/tinymce/advcode/commits/main>

> ////

Author: This has been actioned.

The new additions and improvements with the introduction of {productname} 6.4, include a new `isEditable` API been added to the `editor.dom` which now blocks the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command when the contents return a `true` value if the editor detects the element is a `contentEditable = false;` in a `contentEditable = false;` root.

As a result, any elements that return a `true` value when a specified element is `contentEditable = true;`, will call the new `isEditable` API to action the new blocker to ensure `contentEditable = false;` elements cannot be modified when they are within a root that is set to `contentEditable = false`.

=== New setText and setIcon methods added to menu button and toolbar button apis
// TINY-9268

In previous versions of {productname}, it was not possible to change the `text` or `icon` of a toolbar button after it had been set for the first time. As a consequence, the menu and toolbar button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what the user had selected within the menubar or toolbar.

> In {productname} 6.4, two new additions were added to the menu button API.
> 
> . Added `setText` and `setIcon` properties to both the toolbar button `api`, and menu button `api`.
> . Provided the menu button `api` property as an *argument* which will fetch a function that will allow menu items to change the `icon` or `text` of the parent menu button.
> 
> As a result, in {productname} 6.4, menu items can change based on the parent menu button `api` properties.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.4, two new methods (`setText` and `setIcon` ) were added to the menu and toolbar button APIs, that now update the parent icon or text based on what menu is selected from the button.

As a result, in {productname} 6.4, menu items can now change based on the parent menu and toolbar button selection.
```

> 

Author: @tiny-ben-tran 👆, can you please review the above suggested changes.

> 

Author: Moved this to the new review, closing due to being an outdated suggestion.

=== New `highlight_on_focus` option which enables highlighting the content area on focus

> // TINY-9277

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's correct for this ticket. The outcome of this ticket is to add a border around the editor window so that it is visible that the editor is in focus. The border will only be rendered when the editor is in focus and with the option set to true.

Author: @shanmen-tiny this has been updated.

> In previous versions of {productname}, when using developer tools such as Chrome DevTools, the editor content area would not render the `focus` border when the editor was `infocus`.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran The write up of this has been updated in recent change suggestions.
Closing this comment.

> In previous versions of {productname}, when using developer tools such as Chrome DevTools, the editor content area would not render the `focus` border when the editor was `infocus`.
> 
> As a consequence, this issue, whilst creating no impending impacts on the functionality of the editor, would create an inconsistency with the visual UX for the `devTools` environment. As `devTools` is used by developers to inspect the rendered HTML, and troubleshoot issues, the importance for rendering {productname} elements is vital. 
> 
> To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4, made some changes to the `focusController` to ensure that when the editor content is `infocus` the editor will render the highlighted border within `devTools`, and when the editor is not `infocus` to remove `focus`.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, the editor now renders the highlighted border when in `focus` which is visible only via `devTools`.

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when using developer tools such as Chrome DevTools, the highlighted border around the editor content window should render with the container when is `infocus`.

As a consequence, this issue, whilst creating no impending impacts on the functionality of the editor, would create an inconsistency with the visual UX for the `devTools` environment. As `devTools` is used by developers to inspect the rendered HTML, and troubleshoot issues, the importance for rendering {productname} elements is vital. 

To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4, made some changes to the `focusController` to ensure that when the editor content is `infocus` the editor will render the highlighted border for the editor content window if the below option is integrated into the `tinymce.init()` such as the below:

.Option for setting `highlight_on_focus: true`
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",
    plugins: [ 
    ],
    highlight_on_focus: true // This option is required to be set to `true`.
});
----

In {productname} 6.4, when the `highlight_oon_focus option is set to `true`, the editor now renders the highlighted border to the editor content window, when the `focus` is directed to the "textarea" container.
```

Author: @shanmen-tiny - TY for the above, please review the amended content, when possible.

Reviewer 2: LGTM!

=== New fontsizeinput toolbar item which allows the user to set the size via input and also increase and decrease it with + and - buttons
// TINY-9429

In previous versions of {productname}, users did not have the ability to set their font size by either direct input into a component field or by using plus `+` or minus `-` buttons.

As a consequence, {productname} introduced a new UI component that gives users an option to set the default unit of measure (UOM) for font sizes via the new input field or the plus `+` or minus `-` buttons within the toolbar when the `fontsizeinput` is set within the tinymce.init() such as the below:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",  // change this value according to your HTML
    toolbar: "fontsizeinput",
    font_size_input_default_unit: "pt"
});
----

[NOTE]
More details about this component and the possible values that can be used within the new `fontsizeinput` input field can be found in `xref:available-toolbar-buttons.adoc#the-core-toolbar-buttons[fontsizeinput]`.

=== Added skipFocus option to the ToggleToolbarDrawer command to preserve focus
// TINY-9337

> A focusing event that was in the initial *FloatingToolbarButton* config, in previous versions of {productname} in (2019) was causing `focus` issues with the *ToggleToolbarDrawer*. As a consequence, this meant that while the editor was been scrolled into `focus`(viewport position), and the *ToggleToolbarDrawer* command `skipFocus: boolean` was set, the toolbar draw could still take `focus` when It was not meant to.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran does not seem to have any affect if the `skipFocus` set to `false` or `true` as it always returns `true`

> A focusing event that was in the initial *FloatingToolbarButton* config, in previous versions of {productname} in (2019) was causing `focus` issues with the *ToggleToolbarDrawer*. As a consequence, this meant that while the editor was been scrolled into `focus`(viewport position), and the *ToggleToolbarDrawer* command `skipFocus: boolean` was set, the toolbar draw could still take `focus` when It was not meant to.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran moved your suggested changes to the new review, so i can clean up this PR as its outdated.

To address this issue, we have added a new `xss_sanitization: boolean` editor option. This option is enabled by default which enables sanitization, but can now be set to `false` to disable sanitization. If a customer wishes to prevent their content from being modified by the sanitization, they can now set this option to `false`.

.Example: using `+xss_sanitization+` to turn DOMPurify off and no longer sanitize HTML against XSS attacks
[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  xss_sanitization: false
});
----

[IMPORTANT]
It is important to note that disabling sanitization introduces potential security issues, especially if the server-side XSS sanitization is weak or non-existent and is therefore not recommended.

// Read more about xref:sanitizing-html-input-to-protect-against-xss-attacks[Sanitizing HTML input to protect against XSS attacks]

=== Added top right close 'x' button of the modal dialogs to keyboard navigation
// TINY-9520

In previous versions of {productname}, the top right close 'x' button within the modal dialogs were not keyboard-navigable by the Tab key.

> With the release of {productname} 6.4, various changes have now made it possible for modal dialogues to be navigated with the Tab key. This is accomplished by adding a `Tabbing.config` to the close 'x' button. The `Tabbing.config` is an object that describes the sequence of focusable elements, their `tabindex` and the `initial focus` within the dialog when it is opened. In addition an optional `firstTabstop` property has also been added to the `Tabbing.config` to specify which element receives focus first when the dialog is opened.

Reviewer 3: `Tabbing.config` is an Alloy concept, which is not exposed to the integrators.

Author: ```suggestion
With the latest release of {productname} 6.4, users can now navigate through modal dialogues with ease using the Tab key. This new feature was made possible by updating the tab functions that directly affect the `x` close button, which resulted in changes to the sequence of focusable elements, their `tabindex`, and the `initial` focus within the dialog when it is opened. With these updates, users can now use the `Tab` key to move through the elements within the modal dialogue, making it more accessible and user-friendly. 
```

Author: @tiny-ben-tran Can you review the re-write above.

Author: ```suggestion
With the latest release of {productname} 6.4, users can now navigate through all dialogs that have a `x` close button. With these updates, users can now use the `Tab` key to move through the elements within the modal dialogue, making it more accessible and user-friendly. 
```

Author: @tiny-ben-tran ⬆️

> This update enables users to more easily and quickly access the modal dialogues within {productname}.

Author: ```suggestion
This the change is applied to all dialogs that have a `x` close button within {productname}.
```

> This update enables users to more easily and quickly access the modal dialogues within {productname}, which includes dialogs such as:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This update enables users to more easily and quickly access the modal dialogues within {productname}.
```

Reviewer 3: I believe this applies all to dialogs that has `x` close button

In previous versions of {productname}, the link plugin would display the context menu items for `contenteditable="false"` links.

As a consequence, links such as `table of contents` would open the context menu when `clicked`. The behaviour for the `table of contents`, is not designed to allow links to be modified or removed as the `table of contents` plugin is considered as a `contenteditable="false"` element.

To fix this bug, {productname} 6.4 introduced a new check that now verify if the link plugin is opened, which will now block the context menu on `table of contents` from opening upon when the `toc` is clicked. 

As a result, the context menu for the `table of contents` now behaves as expected in {productname} 6.4.

=== The formatting of contenteditable="false" elements are no longer cloned to new cells while creating new table rows
// TINY-9449

In previous versions of {productname}, contenteditable="false" elements such as a *merge tags* could clone the styling to a new table row. In some situations, this cloning would happen during the creation of new table row, where the merge tag prefix would unexpectedly clone the formatting from the previous cell to the new cell.

> To correct this issue, {productname} added changes to the *clone logic*, and the cursor position API, which will now return `true`, for any passed `contenteditable=false` elements.

Reviewer 3: `and the cursor position API, which will now return `true`, for any passed `contenteditable=false` elements.`, perhaps, this deserves a separate change entry if the integrators should be concerned. If not, this should be removed

Author: ```suggestion
To correct this issue, {productname} added changes to the *clone logic*, to not copy the format for `contenteditable="false"` elements.
```

In {productname} 6.4, the formatting of `contenteditable="false"` elements are no longer cloned to new cells while creating new table rows.

=== Changed the color of @dialog-table-border-color, and added right padding to the first cell of dialog table
// TINY-9380

An area for improvement was identified during an accessibility audit for the *help menu* within {productname}, which focuses on users that rely on **zoom orient** to help with visibility.

The consequence of the previous UX, meant that adjustments needed to be made to the horizontal lines within the *help menu* table, that seperate each `row`.

> To fix this accessibility issue, {productname} 6.4, increased the contrast ratio to `3:1` to each line divider, and changed the `line` color to `#646D78` to further help define were the separations occur in the table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To fix this accessibility issue, {productname} 6.4, increased the contrast ratio to `3:1` for each line divider for better visibility
```

=== The sidebar element now has accessibility role region when visible and presentation when hidden
// TINY-9517

In previous versions of {productname}, Axe-DevTools (web accessibility testing extension) identified that the sidebar element within {productname} was set to `role="complementary"` when the element was either in a visible or hidden state, which created issues with screen readers, as the general rule is that landmarks should not be contained within another landmark.

As a consequence by having the sidebar set to `role="complementary"` for both states, tools such as screen readers in some situations would disable their functionality.

This is important as when a sidebar element is visible, it has an accessibility role of `region`. This ensures the sidebar and its contents are accessible to screen readers and other accessibility tools. This role is important for screen readers to identify the sidebar as a meaningful part of the page. When the sidebar element is hidden, it has a role of presentation, which is used to inform the user that the element is not important and can be safely ignored. 

> To fix this issue, changes were made to the role attribute of the sidebar element `(.tox-sidebar)`, which is now set to `role="region"` when it's active state is visible, otherwise it defaults to `role="presentation"` when hidden.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To fix this issue, changes were made to the role attribute of the sidebar element, which is now set to `role="region"` when it's active state is visible, otherwise it defaults to `role="presentation"` when hidden.
```

In {productname} 6.4, when the sidebar is either visible or hidden it now passes the accessibility test with Axe-DevTools.

[[bug-fixes]]
== Bug fixes

{productname} 6.4 also includes the following bug fixes:

> === Sometimes the editor would finish initializing before the silver theme would have finished loading

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Sometimes the editor would finish initializing before the theme would have finished loading
```

// TINY-9556

> In earlier versions of {productname}, the properties set for the `renderUI`, caused conflicting issues with the theme rendering load times. As a consequence, the `renderUI` would finish rendering before the {productname} theme `silver` would finish loading.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In earlier versions of {productname}, the properties set for the `renderUI`, caused conflicting issues with the theme rendering load times. As a consequence, the `renderUI` would finish rendering before the {productname} theme would finish loading.
```

To fix this bug, {productname}, made changes to the `renderUI` properties that allowed the theme type the to return a `Promise<RenderResult>` instead of `RenderResult`, which corrects the issues found previously. 

In {productname} 6.4, all `renderUI` property loading issues have been resolved.

=== The searchreplace modal would close incorrectly when clicking outside of the alert that pops up when no match is found
// TINY-9443

> In previous versions of {productname}, the search replace modal would close incorrectly when clicking outside of the alert dialog. The expexted behaviour in previous versions was that an error dialog would open when **no <string> match** was found within the {productname} editor viewport. The identifying issue found was when the user would `click` outside of the error dialog, resulting in the `Find and Replace` modal to closes incorrectly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, the searchreplace modal would close incorrectly when clicking outside of the alert dialog. The expected behavior in previous versions was that an error dialog would open when **no <string> match** was found within the {productname} editor viewport. The identifying issue found was when the user would `click` outside of the error dialog, resulting in the `Find and Replace` modal to closes incorrectly.
```

> In {productname} 6.4, when a **no <string> match** occurs within the {productname} editor viewport, an error banner will render in the `Find and Replace` modal beneith the (Replace with) field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.4, when a **no <string> match** occurs within the {productname} editor viewport, an error banner will render in the `Find and Replace` modal beneath the (Replace with) field.
```

As a result the when the instance occurs where **no <string> match** is triggered, the user will be prompted with the following warning: *`Could not find the specified string`*.

=== Color picker on toolbar would not update when changing forecolor or backcolor from menu
// TINY-9439

In {productname} 6.3, when the https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.3-release-notes/#new-color_map_foreground-and-color_map_background-options-store-custom-colors-selected-using-the-text-color-and-background-color-menus[new color map] was introduced, a regression was found that affected the UI for *Color Swatch*.

> The regression meant the colors would not render inside the color palette to reflect the selected `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background` stored. To correct this {productname}, added a register that would store the `last color` for each  specific `node | cell` that will hold this `value` for the color picker pallette.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The regression meant the colors would not render inside the color palette to reflect the selected `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background` stored. 
```

`To correct this {productname}, added a register that would store the `last color` for each  specific `node | cell` that will hold this `value` for the color picker pallette.` Would an integrator be concerned about the updated logic?

In {productname} 6.4, when the color picker in the `toolbar` is updated when changing either the `forecolor` or `backcolor` from the `menubar`.

=== The onSetup api function would not run when defining custom group toolbar button
// TINY-9496

A bug was discovered that affected the custom group toolbar button `config` in {productname}, due to a missing `Event Behaviour`. As a consequence, the `onSetup` api function would not run as intended when defining a custom group toolbar `button`, resulting in the `console` returning `blank`.

> In {productname} 6.4, this bug was fixed by adding a `Event Behaviour` to the toolbar group button that now calls the `api` as intended.

Reviewer 3: `Event Behaviour` is an Alloy concept, which is not a concern to the integrators

Author: ```suggestion
A bug was discovered that affected the custom group toolbar button in {productname}, due to missing some event handlers. As a consequence, the `onSetup` api function would not run as intended when defining a custom group toolbar button.

In {productname} 6.4, this bug was fixed by adding a handler to the toolbar group button that now calls the `api` as intended.
```

As a result, the `onSetup` function for custom group toolbar buttons now runs correctly in {productname} 6.4.

=== An element could be dropped onto the decendants of an element with a `noneditable` attribute
// TINY-9364

> In {productname} 6.0, the drag and drop `config` did not check some conditions surrounding element placements using either a drag or drop action.  This affected users running {productname} 6.0, which would affectivly allow decendants of `contenteditable="false"` element to be dropped into another `contenteditable="false"` element.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.0, the drag and drop `config` did not check some conditions surrounding element placements using either a drag or drop action.  This affected users running {productname} 6.0, which would effectively allow descendants of `contenteditable="false"` element to be dropped into another `contenteditable="false"` element.
```

In {productname} 6.4, inserting contents inside a `contenteditable="false"` element while the selection is inside another element, is no longer possible.

=== Closing a dialog would scroll down the document in Safari
// TINY-9148

While using previous versions of {productname}, `clicking` away to dismiss the *Search* and *Replace* dialog within Safari would scroll the page to the bottom of the editor. As a result the user would have to manually scroll back to the original `focus` area each time the steps above were executed.

To correct this issue, a new Css.set was implemented to keep the `focus` on the DOM container in the initial scroll document position. 

In {productname} 6.4, when the user `clicks` away to dismiss the *Search* and *Replace* dialog within Safari, the focus now returns to the editor and the scroll does not change position within the editor.

=== Inline headers would not work in some situations when the editor was moved too far right horizontally
// TINY-8977

// Cause
// Consequence
// Fix

> // Result

Reviewer: Is this a placeholder? I can't find any notes in the docs section of the ticket, perhaps some information can be provided by @HAFRMO

In previous versions of {productname}, inserting invalid child blocks into a parent block element would create issues with the editing host element.

As a consequence, the editing host element would incorrectly split itself into multiple elements. 

To fix this issue, with the release of {productname} 6.4, pasted elements are now instead unwrapped inside the target element rather than being wrapped.

In {productname} 6.4, pasting blocks that are invalid children of a `contentEditable= true;` blocks will no longer split that block, but instead unwrap the blocks to fit within the specific `contentEditable= true;` block.

=== color_cols option was not respected in the forecolor or backcolor color swatches
// TINY-9560

In previous versions of {productname}, the logic for specifying the number of columns in the `forecolor` and `backcolor` swatches was updated with the release of {productname} 6.3.

As a consequence, this logic didn't use the color_cols option in {productname} v6.3

[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",
    plugins: "table code",
    toolbar: "forecolor backcolor tableprops",
    color_cols: 7, // <-- option was not respected
});
----

> To fix this issue, the default value for `color_cols_foreground` and `color_cols_background` was updated to use color_cols if it is set within the `tinymce.init` script, and otherwise use the correct default number of columns.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, the correct number of columns is respected in the forecolor and backcolor colour swatches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.4, the color swatches opened by the `forecolor` and `backcolor` toolbar buttons have the amount of columns set by the `color_cols` option, if it is set.
```

In {productname} 6.4, two new key overrides have been added to:

. Check that a `non-collapsed` selection satisfies the conditions set (specifically for a ranged selection using `backspace/delete`).
. Check a range of conditions *before* continuing (for keyboard shortcut `backspace/delete`).

As a result, the ranged selection for backspace/delete now check that all of the original formats at the cursor selection *start*, before deletion, are retained with either the native browser behaviour or a caret. For keyboard shortcuts that are using backspace/delete, will create a new unformatted caret which prevents browsers from inserting interpolated formats.

=== Visual characters were rendered inside noneditable elements
// TINY-9474

In previous versions of {productname}, a bug was found that affected the `visual characters` plugin. As a consequence, the visual characters selecter would render inside `contenteditable="false"` elements after the plugin was applied to the editor.

> To fix this issue, a conditional filter was added which identifies, if an element is either a `contenteditable="true"` element or a `contenteditable="false"` element to its decendants.  If the element matches as a `contenteditable="false"` element to itself or decendants, the `visual character` plugin will remove the highlighted selecter from within the `dom` viewport.

Author: ```suggestion
In order to address this problem, improvements were made that now detects whether an element or any of its descendants has the `contenteditable="true"` or `contenteditable="false"` attribute. If the element is identified as a `contenteditable="false"` element, either by itself or through its descendants, the visual character plugin will eliminate the highlighted selector from the dom viewport.
```

> To fix this issue, a conditional filter was added which identifies, if an element is either a `contenteditable="true"` element or a `contenteditable="false"` element to its decendants.  If the element matches as a `contenteditable="false"` element to itself or decendants, the `visual character` plugin will remove the highlighted selecter from within the `dom` viewport.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran 👆 please review above suggested re-write

> To fix this issue, a conditional filter was added which identifies, if an element is either a `contenteditable="true"` element or a `contenteditable="false"` element to its decendants.  If the element matches as a `contenteditable="false"` element to itself or decendants, the `visual character` plugin will remove the highlighted selecter from within the `dom` viewport.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran reposted in new review

As a result, in {productname} 6.4, `lists` and `advlist` plugins that are set as `contentEditable = 'false'` elements can no longer be modified by using list API commands, toolbar buttons and menu items.

=== Color picker dialog would not update the preview color if the hex input value was prefixed with # symbol
// TINY-9457

In previous versions of {productname}, the preview sample box within the color picker dialod would not render. This issue could be replicated when a hex `value` was prefixed with a `#` symbol before the hex `value`.

Example of a `incorrect` vs `correct` value input:

* `#BDE123`: Incorrect hex value input.
* `BDE123`: Correct hex value input.

In order to fix this bug, {productname} 6.4, not detects if the user inserts a `#` symbol before the hex `value`, which removes the leading `#` prefix before rendering to the color picker component.

In {productname} 6.4, the color picker works as expected when using hex `values`.

=== Table cell selection was possible even if the element was in a noneditable root element
// TINY-9459

> Previous versions of {productname}, table cells set with the `contenteditable="false"` element properties could still be modified. This was because the `contenteditable="true"` element property settings were set to `false` in the root. This meant that any table UI actions, commands or table selections could still affect any tables that were within that specific `contenteditable="false"` element root.

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, table cells set within a `contenteditable="false"` root element could still be modified. This was due to configuration settings within the `contenteditable="true"` function as it was set to `false` by default in the root. This meant that any table UI actions, commands or selections could affect tables that were nested within the `contenteditable="false"` root element.
```

> Previous versions of {productname}, table cells set with the `contenteditable="false"` element properties could still be modified. This was because the `contenteditable="true"` element property settings were set to `false` in the root. This meant that any table UI actions, commands or table selections could still affect any tables that were within that specific `contenteditable="false"` element root.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran 👆 how does that read?

> Previous versions of {productname}, table cells set with the `contenteditable="false"` element properties could still be modified. This was because the `contenteditable="true"` element property settings were set to `false` in the root. This meant that any table UI actions, commands or table selections could still affect any tables that were within that specific `contenteditable="false"` element root.

Author: Moved this to a new review as it was outdated.

As a result, any `contenteditable="false"` elements that are nested within another `contenteditable="false"` element root that are nested within `table` elements, can no longer be edited in {productname} 6.4.

=== Textareas with scrollbars in dialogs would not render rounded corners correctly on some browsers
// TINY-9331

In previous versions of {productname}, the source code visible UI boarder would not render correctly in some browsers.

As a consequence, when viewing text-areas that contain `scrollbars` within dialogs, the `focus` visible boarder was not rendering the corners inside the dialog.

To correct this issue, {productname} 6.4, introduced a new text-area wrapper that fixes the issues with the `boarder-color, radius, style and width` that directly affects the `focus` render element for the dialog.  In addition `overflow: hidden;`, has been added to clip the scrollbars to the border-radius.

As a result, the `focus` dialog boarder now renders correctly in {productname} 6.4.

> === It was possible to open links inside the editor if the editor root was noneditable

Reviewer 3: Suggest to look the ticket.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran note, this has been fixed and the new changes have been applied.

    })
}
----

As a result, links could be opened within the `iframe` element.

In {productname} 6.4, links can no longer be navigable by clicking on them while they are inside a `contenteditable="false"` root, after a blocker was implemented to avoid this event `action`.

In {productname} 6.4, all links in a `contenteditable="false"` now behave as expected.

=== Inline boundary was rendered for noneditable inline boundary elements
// TINY-9471

Inline boundaries for `contenteditable="false"` elements were rendering styling in previous versions of {productname} 6.4 after the user `selected` before and after the `contenteditable="false"` elements node. The expected behaviour is that `contenteditable="false"` elements should *not* have inline boundaries when a caret is inside an `contenteditable="false"` anchor or root.

Added a predicate check for inline boundaries before they render, and additional tests for `selections` for some special cases surrounding particular `contenteditable="false"` elements.

In {productname} 6.4, it is now not possible to highlight inline boundary elements that are classified as a `contenteditable="false"` content element.

> === Clicking on a disabled split button will no longer call the onAction callback

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Clicking on a disabled split button would call the onAction callback
```

@kemister85 ,

// TINY-9504

> A bug was found in versions of {productname} prior to the 6.4 release, that would call the `onAction` callback for *split buttons* regardless of the action being `disabled`. This meant it was possible for the user to emit the `onAction` call wether or not the `disable` function was enabled or not.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A bug was found in versions of {productname} prior to the 6.4 release, that would call the `onAction` callback for *split buttons* regardless of the action being `disabled`. This meant it was possible for the user to call `onAction` unintentionally
```

> As a fix to the issue, {productname} 6.4 introduced a new conditional check to identify *if* the button is `enabled` or `disabled`. If the button is set to `enabled` then {productname} executes the secondary check, which will identify wether or not the button is a *split button*.  Split buttons are classified as “special buttons”,  as they are unique and require both `advlists` and `dropdowns` to function, this makes them more complex than traditional buttons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a fix to the issue, {productname} 6.4 introduced a new conditional check to identify *if* the button is `disabled`  before calling the `onAction` callback.
```

In {productname} 6.4, clicking on a disabled split button won't call the `onAction` callback anymore.

=== The "Edit Link" dialog incorrectly retrieved the URL value when opened immediately after the link insertion
// TINY-7993

A bug was found within the context menu and dialog when inserting `links` in previous versions of {productname}. The issue resulted in the `open link` being deactivated within the context menu and dialog when the user would execute a specific chain of clicks. Such as:

.Example
====
. Opening the editor
. Type “test1 test2 test3” into the editor
. Double click to select “test2”
. Use the context menu to insert a new link over the text “test2”
. Add a valid URL
. Press `Enter`
. Without taking any other action, right click on “test2”

In this example the bug would deactivate the `open link` button within the context menu and dialog, which removes the users ability to reopen the “open link” dialog.
====

> The fix now allows all three link-plugins to work within the context menu items.

Reviewer 3: What are the three link plugins?

Author: * Link...
* Remove link
* Open link - previously this was deactivated

In {productname} 6.4, when the user executes right `mouse click` on the link selection immediately after attaching a link to a `<string>`, the link-plugins now work as expected.

> === Editor commands ForwardDelete and Delete was deleting contents inside noneditable elements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Editor commands ForwardDelete and Delete were deleting contents inside noneditable elements
```

// TINY-9477

> Previously, when using the forwarddelete or delete keys in earlier versions of {productname}, the contents within `contenteditable="false"` elements were deleted. This meant that if there were nested elements within a `contenteditable="false"` root element that were also set to `contenteditable="false"`, they could be deleted from the root element.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, when using the `ForwardDelete` or `Delete` commands in earlier versions of {productname}, the contents within `contenteditable="false"` elements were deleted. This meant that if there were nested elements within a `contenteditable="false"` root element that were also set to `contenteditable="false"`, they could be deleted from the root element.
```

> To resolve this issue, {productname} 6.4 included several enhancements to prevent all commands and keyboard functions, including delete/forwarddelete, from affecting `contenteditable="false"` content. These changes also updated the editor selection `isEditable` function to prioritize fake selections first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To resolve this issue, {productname} 6.4 included several enhancements to prevent all commands and keyboard functions, including delete/forwarddelete, from affecting `contenteditable="false"` content.
```

Don't think `isEdibtable` is an API

Consequently, in {productname} 6.4, using the forwarddelete or delete keys on `contenteditable="false"` elements within a `contenteditable="false"` element will no longer delete the contents within the `contenteditable="false"` elements.

=== Backspace or delete keys was deleting contents inside noneditable elements
// TINY-9477

In the previous versions of {productname}, when utilizing the backspace or delete keys, they would delete the contents inside `contenteditable="false"` elements.

> As a consequence, elements nested within a `contenteditable="false"` root element set to `contentEditable= false;`, were able to be removed/deleted from the `contenteditable="false"` root element. To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4 introduced various improvements to block all commands and keyboard functions such as `delete/backspace` from being applied to `contenteditable="false"` content. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a consequence, elements nested within a `contenteditable="false"` root element set to `contenteditable= false;`, were able to be removed/deleted from the `contenteditable="false"` root element. To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4 introduced various improvements to block all commands and keyboard functions such as `delete/backspace` from being applied to `contenteditable="false"` content. 
```

> The changes made to {productname} 6.4 included updates to the editor selection `isEditable` function, which now prioritizes fake selections first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

As commented above

As a result, in {productname} 6.4, when using the backspace or delete function keys on `contenteditable="false"` elements within a `contenteditable="false"` element, the contents within the `contenteditable="false"` elements will no longer be deleted. 

=== Inserting newlines inside an editable element inside a noneditable root would sometimes try to split the editable element
// TINY-9461

> In previous versions of {productname}, inserting newlines inside an `contentEditable= true;` element while it was inside a `contentEditable= false;` root would sometimes try to split the `contentEditable= true;` element. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, inserting newlines inside an `contenteditable= true` element while it was inside a `contenteditable= false` root would sometimes try to split the `contenteditable= true` element. 
```

> As a consequence, when child block elements set to `contentEditable=true;` such as a `<p>` tag were nested within the `contentEditable= false;` element root, the editor would try to split the child block element when the user hit the `enter` command. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a consequence, when child block elements set to `contenteditable=true` such as a `<p>` tag were nested within the `contenteditable= false` element root, the editor would try to split the child block element when the user hit the `enter` command. 
```

As the paragraph tag is intended to be a block for `text`, it is classified as `semantically incorrect` to split a paragraph block element.

> In this particular instance, child elements in {productname} such as the `<p>` tag would split the block element resulting in a new block (such as a new paragraph) to be created inside the paragraph when a user attempted to edit it inside a `contentEditable= false;` root element. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this particular instance, child elements in {productname} such as the `<p>` tag would split the block element resulting in a new block (such as a new paragraph) to be created inside the paragraph when a user attempted to edit it inside a `contenteditable="false"` root element. 
```

Fixes were introduced with the release of {productname} 6.4, that:

* Prevents editing host elements like `<p contenteditable="true">paragraph text</p>` in a `contentEditable= false;` root to be split.

> * Prevents editing hosts elements inside a `contentEditable= false;` root to be split.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Prevents editing hosts elements inside a `contenteditable= false` root to be split.
```

As a result, when a root element is set to `contentEditable= false;`, any `contentEditable= true;` elements inside that root element such as `<p>` tag will no longer try to split the `contentEditable= true;` element. 

=== Creating a list in a table cell when the caret is in front of an anchor element would not properly include the anchor in the list.
// TINY-6853

In previous versions of {productname}, a bug was causing issues with `links` while they were nested within table-cells. As a consequence, it was found that when creating a `num-list` or `bullet-list` to the left (node) of a `link` that was nested within a table cell the `list` would *not* include the created `link` within the `num or bullet-list` as expected. 

To fix this bug, the table cell now checks *If* the caret position is in front of an *anchor element*, `if` (true), then the table cell will include the anchor in the `list`.

In {productname} 6.4, anchor elements are included inside `lists` while nested within table cells.

=== Dragging and dropping noneditable elements on table borders would remove the element on drop
// TINY-9021

> In previous versions of {productname}, dragging and dropping `contentEditable= false;` elements on table borders would create issues during the drop action.

Reviewer 3: @kemister85 , there are a lot of this pattern `contentEditable= false;`  or `contentEditable= true;` in the doc. Please correct them to `contenteditable="false"` or `contenteditable="true"` respectively

Author: @tiny-ben-tran these have all been updated, thanks for the pickup.

As a fix, {productname} 6.4, added a new condition which validates a set of conditions the check if the parent block element is within a `parentNode` and is a block element, in which it will trigger a action to remove elements with padding that meet this condition. 

In {productname} 6.4, dragging and dropping elements that are `contentEditable= false;` out of they're parent blocks now correctly pad the parent block element.

////

// No security issues as of 2023-02-09
//
// Leave this comment block in place until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.

[[security-fixes]]
== Security fixes

{productname} 6.4 includes a fix for the following security issue:

No security issues as of 2023-02-09

Leave this comment block in place until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.

////

[[known-issues]]
== Known issues

This section describes issues that users of {productname} 6.4 may encounter and possible workarounds for these issues.

There are several known issues in {productname} 6.4.

=== Accessibility check dropdown not populated when switching between issues

> // TINY-9679

Author: @tiny-ben-tran 👍

In {productname} 6.3, when the https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.3-release-notes/#new-color_map_foreground-and-color_map_background-options-store-custom-colors-selected-using-the-text-color-and-background-color-menus[new color map] was introduced, a regression was found that affected the UI for *Color Swatch*.

The regression meant the colors would not render inside the color palette to reflect the selected `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background` stored. 

In {productname} 6.4, when the color picker in the `toolbar` is updated when changing either the `forecolor` or `backcolor` from the `menubar`.

=== The onSetup api function would not run when defining custom group toolbar button
// TINY-9496

A bug was discovered that affected the custom group toolbar button in {productname}, due to missing some event handlers. As a consequence, the `onSetup` api function would not run as intended when defining a custom group toolbar button.

In {productname} 6.4, this bug was fixed by adding a handler to the toolbar group button that now calls the `api` as intended.

As a result, the `onSetup` function for custom group toolbar buttons now runs correctly in {productname} 6.4.

> === An element could be dropped onto the decendants of an element with a `noneditable` attribute

Author: ```suggestion
=== An element could be dropped onto the decendants of an element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute
```

// TINY-9395

Previous versions of {productname} the known issue, (_https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.3-release-notes/#checkmark-over-the-current-background-color-is-not-displayed-when-inline-formatting-is-applied-in-a-certain-order[checkmark-over-the-current-background-color-is-not-displayed-when-inline-formatting-is-applied-in-a-certain-order]_) was identified. As a consequence, when text was formatted in the following order, the *checkmark* over the currently active background color would not display in the Background color swatch menu:

. When the user appled inline formatting, such as *bold* or _Italic_.
. After applying a foreground(text) color.
. After applying a background color.

To fix this bug, {productname} introduced a new variable to store the node `selection` and `color` format value, which then renders a checkmark to appear in both the toolbar and menubar for both the `forecolor` and `background` color.

As a result, in {productname} 6.4, checkmarks now work as expected when using the color swatch in both the toolbar and menubar.

=== The foreground and background menu icons would not properly update to display the last used color
// TINY-9497

> In previous versions of {productname}, while the foreground and background icons were updating in the toolbar dropdown, the menu icons in the menubar dropdown would not update the colour option in the format menu after the user applied colors to the selected text, despite the fact that this was the expected behaviour. While workarounds where available, this deviation from the expected functionality caused confusion for some users until the fix was applied.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran found additional 10 edit corrections thank you.
This have been updated to reflect `US-en`

// TINY-9489

In previous versions of {productname}, pasting links to `text` selections in Safari would sometimes not generate the correct undo stack.

This is due to Safari not supporting the ability to track changes to a page within the editor, which can create issues for users when pasting links to `text` selections, as the undo stack would not be able to recognise the link as a separate element, resulting in the undo action when called, to not remove the hyperlink.

To fix this issue, a workaround was implemented in {productname} 6.4, that now bypasses the default paste functionality for this undo function.

In {productname} 6.4, pasting links to text selections now generates the correct undo stack on Safari.

=== Toolbar split buttons in advlist plugin to show the correct state when the cursor is in a checklist
// TINY-5167

In previous versions of {productname}, when a cursor was placed within a checklist item, the icon for both the checklist and the bullet list would show as `active`. This created UX issues, as having both buttons showing a `active` state was confusing for the user, specifically for navigation purposes when using checklists from the `advlist` plugin.

> To fix this issue, {productname} added improvements to the list configuration to checks a new set of conditionals which would determine if the `node` selected matched the parent `node` within the checklist. If the match returns as `true`, the (api) will set only the checklist icon to a `active` state.
> 
> As a result, the checklist `icon` in {productname} 6.4, related to the `advlist` plugin will only appear in a `active` state, when the `node` checklist meets the new conditions implemented.

Author: ```suggestion
{productname} addressed the issue by enhancing the list configuration to include a new set of conditionals. These conditionals check if the selected node matches the parent node within the checklist. If there is a match, the (api) will activate only the checklist icon.

Consequently, the checklist icon of {productname} 6.4, which is associated with the **Advanced List** plugin, will only be displayed in an active state if the node checklist fulfills the newly implemented conditions.
```

> As a result, the checklist `icon` in {productname} 6.4, related to the `advlist` plugin will only appear in a `active` state, when the `node` checklist meets the new conditions implemented.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran ☝️

> As a result, the checklist `icon` in {productname} 6.4, related to the `advlist` plugin will only appear in a `active` state, when the `node` checklist meets the new conditions implemented.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran moved this to the new review as it was outdated.

=== Dragging transparent elements into transparent blocks elements could produce invalid nesting of transparents
// TINY-9231

Dragging or dropping block `links` into other `links` was producing invalid nesting of other transparents such as `anchors`. As a result, these transparent elements would produce `anchor` tags within other `anchor` tags, which is not a general practice. As an example `links` and `anchors` that are defined to an element, must not be nested within or contain any other element and vice versa.

Changes were implemented in {productname} 6.4 to fix this issue to ensure that any invalid child anchor elements that try to reproduce this action are unwrapped when the editor verifies another transparent has been dropped into another transparent (anchor) element.

> In {productname} 6.4, dragging content such as `links` into other `links` will now produce *valid* HTML `output` after a drag operation occurs which will be consistent across all browsers.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran This has been updated in recent change suggestions.
Closing off this comment, TY

=== The editor.insertContent API would insert contents inside noneditable elements if the selection was inside the element
// TINY-9462

In previous versions of {productname}, the settings for the `contentEditable` property in the editor root was set to `false`. As a consequence, the user could insert content using `api` commands to edit a `contenteditable="false"` root element.

To fix this bug, in {productname} 6.4, a blocker was added to the `editor.insertContent` api and `mceInsertContent` command, which stops `contenteditable="false"` root elements from being edited.

In {productname} 6.4, inserting contents inside a `contenteditable="false"` element while the selection is inside another element, is no longer possible.

=== Closing a dialog would scroll down the document in Safari
// TINY-9148

While using previous versions of {productname}, `clicking` away to dismiss the *Search* and *Replace* dialog within Safari would scroll the page to the bottom of the editor. As a result the user would have to manually scroll back to the original `focus` area each time the steps above were executed.

> To correct this issue, a new Css.set was implemented to keep the `focus` on the DOM container in the initial scroll document position. 

Author: Closing this comment as it has been reviewed and content updates remove reference of the `Css.set`

In {productname} 6.4, when the user `clicks` away to dismiss the *Search* and *Replace* dialog within Safari, the focus now returns to the editor and the scroll does not change position within the editor.

=== Inline headers would not work in some situations when the editor was moved too far right horizontally
// TINY-8977

// Cause
// Consequence
// Fix
// Result

> === Quick toolbars were incorrectly rendered during the dragging of contenteditable="false" elements

Author: ```suggestion
=== Quick toolbars were incorrectly rendered during the dragging of `contenteditable="false"` elements
```

// TINY-9305

> The quickbar was displaying incorrectly during a drag and drop `action` for contenteditable="false" elements. As a consequence, during the movement of a contenteditable="false" element, the selection was updated, which triggered a *NodeChange*. This selection update would cause an absence of the caret location during a dragging or dropping event.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The quickbar was displaying incorrectly during a drag and drop `action` for contenteditable="false" elements. As a consequence, during the movement of a contenteditable="false" element, the selection was updated, which triggered a *NodeChange* event. This selection update would cause an absence of the caret location during a dragging or dropping event.
```

To fix this bug, {productname} 6.4 added a new check to identify when the user is dragging a contenteditable="false" element, which blocks the quickbar from rendering.

> As a result, the quickbar no longer opens in {productname} v6.4+, when the user is dragging a contenteditable="false" elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, the quickbar no longer opens in {productname} v6.4, when the user is dragging a contenteditable="false" elements.
```

`the quickbar no longer opens in {productname} v6.4+` is a great assumption

> === Selection of images, hrs, tables or noneditable elements was possible if they were within a noneditable element

Reviewer 3: What is `hrs`?

Author: @tiny-ben-tran typo

Author: ```suggestion
=== Selection of images, hr, tables or noneditable elements was possible if they were within a noneditable element
```

// TINY-9473

In previous versions of {productname}, `contenteditable="false"` elements that were nested within another such as a element set with the `contenteditable="false"` attribute, would avoid the `contenteditable="false"` guidelines set. As a consequence, selection of images, hrs, tables or `contenteditable="false"` elements was possible if they were nested within a `contenteditable="false"` element.

> Improvements were made to the `SelectionOverride` to now check if the DOM parent node is either set as a `contenteditable="true"` element or as a `contenteditable="false"` element.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Improvements were made to check if the DOM parent node is a `contenteditable="false"` element.
```

Prefer this to be reworded

In {productname} 6.4, elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes can no longer be selected when they are children of another `contenteditable="false"` attribute, such as:

.Example of `contenteditable="false"` elements
[source,HTML]

> ----

Reviewer 3: This is a bad example since it doesn't have a child noneditable element. Also, what is this example trying to convey?

In {productname} 6.4, two new key overrides have been added to:

. Check that a `non-collapsed` selection satisfies the conditions set (specifically for a ranged selection using `backspace/delete`).
. Check a range of conditions *before* continuing (for keyboard shortcut `backspace/delete`).

As a result, the ranged selection for backspace/delete now check that all of the original formats at the cursor selection *start*, before deletion, are retained with either the native browser behaviour or a caret. For keyboard shortcuts that are using backspace/delete, will create a new unformatted caret which prevents browsers from inserting interpolated formats.

=== Visual characters were rendered inside noneditable elements
// TINY-9474

> In previous versions of {productname}, a bug was found that affected the `visual characters` plugin. As a consequence, the visual characters selecter would render inside `contenteditable="false"` elements after the plugin was applied to the editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, a bug was found that affected the `visual characters` plugin. As a consequence, the visual characters selector would render inside `contenteditable="false"` elements after the plugin was applied to the editor.
```

For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Introduction to Spell Checker Pro].

=== Advanced Code Editor 3.2.1

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Advanced Code Editor** premium plugin.

**Advanced Code Editor** 3.2.1 includes the following improvements and additions.

==== New button to copy the current dialog content.

This update adds a new **Copy code** button to the Advanced Code Editor dialog, enabling the copying of the entire contents of the dialog without having to first select.

==== New buttons to increase and decrease the font size in the dialog.

This update adds two new buttons for increasing and decreasing the font size of code displayed in the Advanced Code Editor dialogs.

==== New button to toggle dark mode.

This update adds a new **Dark/light mode** button for toggling the Advanced Code Editor dialog between dark and light display modes.

==== New button to toggle fullscreen.

> This update adds a new **Fullscreen** button that for toggling the Advanced Code Editor dialog between fullscreen and dialog modes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This update adds a new **Fullscreen** button for toggling the Advanced Code Editor between fullscreen and dialog modes.
```
Copy-edits.
1. s/that//.
2. s/Editor dialog/Editor/.

Author: @brian-forte closing this suggestion due to new content suggestions.

> NOTE: For the Advanced Code Editor to offer a full-screen mode requires the xref:fullscreen.adoc[Full screen] plugin and requires {pluginname} to be running in xref:advcode.adoc#advcode_inline[inline mode].

Reviewer 5: Here there is always the term `dialog` that I think could be a little misleading since the buttons are enabled for both `advcode_inline` and `dialog`, and we describe `advcode_inline` as:
```
As part of the TinyMCE 6.3 release, the Advanced Code Editor plugin includes a new option, advcode_inline, that allows users to open the Advanced Code Editor within TinyMCE’s existing editor space instead of being displayed in a separate dialog box.
```
in particular, the description of the `Fullscreen` is very confusing because it says that you can switch between dialog and fullscreen and then there is a note that says that you can't have it without `inline mode`

Author: Closing this comment, as it will be actioned in the new comment thread. @lorenzo-pomili

To fix this bug, {productname} 6.4 added a new check to identify when the user is dragging a contenteditable="false" element, which blocks the quickbar from rendering.

As a result, the quickbar no longer opens in {productname} v6.4+, when the user is dragging a contenteditable="false" elements.

=== Selection of images, hrs, tables or noneditable elements was possible if they were within a noneditable element
//#TINY-9473

In previous versions of {productname}, `contenteditable="false"` elements that were nested within another such as a element set with the `contenteditable="false"` attribute, would avoid the `contenteditable="false"` guidelines set. As a consequence, selection of images, hrs, tables or `contenteditable="false"` elements was possible if they were nested within a `contenteditable="false"` element.

Improvements were made to the `SelectionOverride` to now check if the DOM parent node is either set as a `contenteditable="true"` element or as a `contenteditable="false"` element.

In {productname} 6.4, elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes can no longer be selected when they are children of another `contenteditable="false"` attribute, such as:

> .Example of `contenteditable="false"` elements
> [source,HTML]
> ----
> <div contenteditable="false">noneditables div text</div>
> <div>editable div text</div>
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
.Example of `contenteditable="false"` elements inside `contenteditable="false"` root.
[source,HTML]
----
<div> Parent div element
  <div contenteditable="false">First child noneditable div element</div>
  <div contenteditable="true">Second child editable div element</div>
</div>
----
```

.Example: using `+xss_sanitization+` to turn DOMPurify off and no longer sanitize HTML against XSS attacks
[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  xss_sanitization: false
});
----

[IMPORTANT]
It is important to note that disabling sanitization introduces potential security issues, especially if the server-side XSS sanitization is weak or non-existent and is therefore not recommended.

// Read more about xref:sanitizing-html-input-to-protect-against-xss-attacks[Sanitizing HTML input to protect against XSS attacks]

=== Added top right close 'x' button of the modal dialogs to keyboard navigation
//#TINY-9520

In previous versions of {productname}, the top right close 'x' button within the modal dialogs were not keyboard-navigable by the Tab key.

With the latest release of {productname} 6.4, users can now navigate through all dialogs that have a `x` close button. With these updates, users can now use the `Tab` key to move through the elements within the modal dialogue, making it more accessible and user-friendly. 

> This the change is applied to all dialogs that have a `x` close button within {productname}.

Author: ```suggestion
This change is applied to all dialogs that have a `x` close button within {productname}.
```

//#TINY-8872

In previous versions of {productname}, It was discovered that the editor had some issues with the autoresize function when using content_css documents, which caused the editor to have a indefinite height when content was being added.

To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4 fixed this issue by addressing the conflict between the document skin's CSS and the autoresize bottom margin setting. After this fix, the resize function now checks for loops and considers the margin bottom as always set to 0 instead of autoresize bottom margin, which ensutes that the editor's height is calculated correctly. 

=== Plugin - Search and Replace - Throws a JS console error if you search for a string that doesn't exist and try to click on the preferences button.
//#TINY-9686

In previous versions of {productname}, the Plugin 'Search and Replace' had a known issue that caused it to throw a JavaScript error if you searched for a string that didn't exist while trying to click on the `preferences` button. 

As a result, a `Uncaught TypeError:` error message would prevent users from accessing the preferences section, which is essential for configuring the plugin's behavior.

> In {productname} 6.4, this bug has been fixed.

Author: @MitchCTiny this has been added.

=== Toolbar doesn't hide when editor is out of view in scrollable container
//#TINY-9652

In previous versions of {productname}, the toolbar would remain visible even when the editor was out of view within a scrollable container.

To fix this issue, {productname} added improvements to the scrollable container that included changing the logic of the visibility function for the toolbar when the `ui_mode` is set to 'split'.

With the release of {productname} 6.4, this issue has been resolved. Now, when the editor is out of view within a scrollable container, the toolbar will hide appropriately.

=== `color_cols`: 0 Memory Leak
//#TINY-9649

> In previous versions of {productname}, the color swatch would attempt to display 0 columns of colors when `color_cols`, `color_cols_foreground` and `color_cols_background` are set to 0. As a consequence, the tab would crash and run out of memory when opening a color swatch.

Author: @MitchCTiny this has been added

To fix this issue, {productname} 6.4 added improvements to the default number of columns, 5, which is now used when an option is set to 0 or less.

> In {productname} 6.4, the color swatches no longer causes a memory crash.

Author: @MitchCTiny This has been added with additional changes from the team.

[[known-issues]]
== Known issues

This section describes issues that users of {productname} 6.4 may encounter and possible workarounds for these issues.

There are several known issues in {productname} 6.4.

=== Accessibility check dropdown not populated when switching between issues
//#TINY-9679

In previous versions of {productname}, a bug was discovered that encountered an issue with the **Accessibility Checker** dropdown. When switching between different issues, the dropdown would not re-populate on existing viewed issues.

> As a result, improvements were made to the **Accessibility Checker** dropdown with {productname} 6.4, to ensure that users can now switch between issues with confidence that the dropdown will populate as expected.

Author: @MitchCTiny moved this into a new review, as the suggestion was outdated.

=== Bug with Table Icon in more drawer
//#TINY-9723

Recently, a known issue was discovered that affects the table icon in the more drawer, which is causing tabbing issues.

The issue arises when the regular toolbar overflows, and the tab stopping selector used is not disabled. This causes issues when the user is navigating through the toolbar while using the tab key.

For example, when the tab key navigation is located at the first icon within the link icons group, pressing the tab key jumps into the table icon, which is not the intended behavior. Ideally, the tab key should jump into the source code icon instead in this setup. As it stands, the table icon in the more drawer is being skipped over when using the tab key, which is not the expected result.

> Currently the only work around for this known issue is to use the mouse to select the table icon, until the known issue is resolved.

Author: @MitchCTiny This has been added.

=== Selection of images, hr, tables or noneditable elements was possible if they were within a noneditable element
//#TINY-9473

In previous versions of {productname}, `contenteditable="false"` elements that were nested within another such as a element set with the `contenteditable="false"` attribute, would avoid the `contenteditable="false"` guidelines set. As a consequence, selection of images, hrs, tables or `contenteditable="false"` elements was possible if they were nested within a `contenteditable="false"` element.

Improvements were made to check if the DOM parent node is a `contenteditable="false"` element.

In {productname} 6.4, elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes can no longer be selected when they are children of another `contenteditable="false"` attribute, such as:

.Example of `contenteditable="false"` elements inside `contenteditable="false"` root.
[source,HTML]
----
<div> Parent div element
  <div contenteditable="false">First child noneditable div element</div>
  <div contenteditable="true">Second child editable div element</div>
</div>
----

> === Ranged deletion of formatted text using selection or keyboard shortcut would sometimes cause Blink and Webkit browsers to insert interpreted tags upon typing, which may result in inconsistent tags

Author: @mkzhx how is this outdated already?

> === Ranged deletion of formatted text using selection or keyboard shortcut would sometimes cause Blink and Webkit browsers to insert interpreted tags upon typing, which may result in inconsistent tags

Author: This has been actioned in the latest review.

//#TINY-9302

> Blink & Webkit browsers (Chrome & Safari) were deleting the contents of inline formats which would cause the format to be lost and not retained. As a consequence, this issue would impact the semantics and visuals for the *HTML* document, which is not be visible to the user.
> 
> A override fix already exists for _character-by-character_ deletion using backspace/delete keys with a collapsed selection. However, this particular bug persists when the format is deleted when there is a ranged selection that starts at the beginning of the inline format(s) and encompasses at least the entirety of the inline format(s). The bug also occurs when deletion is done using common keyboard shortcuts including `Ctrl/Alt + Backspace`, `Ctrl/Alt + Delete`, and `Cmd + Backspace`.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, two new key overrides have been added to:
> 
> . Check that a `non-collapsed` selection satisfies the conditions set (specifically for a ranged selection using `backspace/delete`).
> . Check a range of conditions *before* continuing (for keyboard shortcut `backspace/delete`).
> 
> As a result, the ranged selection for backspace/delete now check that all of the original formats at the cursor selection *start*, before deletion, are retained with either the native browser behaviour or a caret. For keyboard shortcuts that are using backspace/delete, will create a new unformatted caret which prevents browsers from inserting interpolated formats.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The native `contenteditable` behaviour on Blink & Webkit browsers (Chrome & Safari) does not retain the original inline format(s) at the caret after all content within a format tag has been deleted. Upon typing again, the browser will attempt to recreate the formats under certain conditions:

. When the selection is collapsed and the last character or element of the content of a format tag is deleted by pressing Backspace or Delete;
. When a ranged selection has been made from the start of the inner content of a format tag and includes the content's entirety, and the ranged selection is deleted by pressing Backspace or Delete; or
. When a keyboard shortcut, including Ctrl+Backspace (Windows/Linux), Ctrl+Delete (Windows/Linux), Opt+Delete (macOS), Opt+Fn+Delete (macOS), and Cmd+Delete (macOS), is used to delete all content within a format tag and the post-deletion caret is at where the start of the content used to be.

The recreated formats are not consistent with the original formats. For example, a `<span style="text-decoration: underline;">` tag will be recreated as a `<u>` tag. This can consequently impact the HTML document's semantics and visuals, causing a bug.

A key override on the Backspace and Delete keys already exists to address the first condition. However, the bug persists for the second and third conditions.

In {productname} 6.4, two new key overrides have been added to address the second and third conditions:

* For Condition 2: When Backspace or Delete is detected on `keydown` on a ranged selection, the override checks if Condition 2 is satisfied. If so, the override will read the current formats, delete the selection, and then create a caret containing the original formats.
* For Condition 3: When one of the keyboard shortcuts from Condition 3 is detected on `keyup`, the override creates an unformatted caret at the current selection. Performing the override on `keyup` allows the native behaviour of the deletion shortcuts to occur. Then, applying an unformatted caret at the selection after deletion will prevent the browser from recreating any formats.
```

Author: @mkzhx  Actioned in suggested new changes review.

= TinyMCE 6.4
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.4
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.4
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes
:page-toclevels: 1

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.4 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, March 15^th^, 2023. It includes {productname} 6.4, additional changes to Premium plugins, and a new Premium plugin, Advanced Template. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.4:

> * xref:new-premium-plugin[New Premium plugin]

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* xref:new-premium-plugin[New Premium Plugin]
```

* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvement[Improvement]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
// * xref:security-fixes[Security fixes] -- leave until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.
// * xref:known-issues[Known issues] -- leave until closer to 2023-03-15 and remove or make visible as appropriate.
// NB: edit the equivalent section of nav.adoc when the remove or make visible decision is made.

[[new-premium-plugin]]

> == New Premium plugin

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
== New Premium Plugin
```

== Accompanying Premium Plugin changes

The following premium plugin updates were released alongside {productname} 6.4.

=== Advanced Typography 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Advanced Typography** premium plugin.

**Advanced Typography** 1.0.1 includes the following fixes, additions, and improvements.

=== Fixed adding redundant space between a comma and a quote by switching the sequence of executing safe and unsafe rules

//https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9442
After {productname} introduced the Smart Typography plugin, a bug was discovered that was causing a space to be introduced between a comma and a closing double-quote mark, as shown in the example below:

.Example
> “They went that way,[space introduced here]” he said as he pointed.

As demonstrated in the example above, an unintentional or redundant space was inserted into a separate node position without intention.

{productname} fixed the issue by changing the sequence of executing safe and unsafe rules surrounding Typography.

In {productname} version 6.4, the Smart Typography plugin no longer creates a space between a comma and a closing double-quote mark.

> === Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks

Author: @tiny-ben-tran Can you specify what section you are referring to please as you have selected context from the paragraph above and the heading for the next ticket.

> === Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks

Author: @tiny-ben-tran are you referring to this `=== Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks`?

> === Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks

Reviewer 3: @kemister85 , yep.

Sorry, I will be more specific next time

> === Added common/space/delBetweenExclamationMarks to remove spaces between exclamation marks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Added functionality to remove spaces between exclamation marks
```

=== Added typography plugin to the default menubar

//https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9450		

In previous versions of {productname}, the typography button would *not* appear in the `menubar` by default. As a consequence, the user could only `find` the typography button in the `toolbar` due to it not appearing in the `menubar` dropdown.

To correct this bug, the typography plugin was added to the default `menubar` config.

{productname} 6.4, by default, will now display the typography button in both the `toolbar` and below the “Source code" button in the `menubar`.

=== Typography button and menu item will be disabled if editor has no content

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9441
In previous versions of {productname}, the typography plugin button would render to the toolbar when the editor contained no content.

As a consequence of this, users would be able to apply the typography button features to an editor that contained no physical content.

> As a fix, {productname} added some new improvements to the Advanced Typography plugin that now disables the users ability to apply the plugin and use its features, when the editor content value returns as `empty`.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran are you referring to the `execcommands`? and that they could override this disable feature?

> As a fix, {productname} added some new improvements to the Advanced Typography plugin that now disables the users ability to apply the plugin and use its features, when the editor content value returns as `empty`.

Author: @tiny-ben-tran this has been tested, and while the `tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('mceTypography')` can be used to trigger the button, as the editor has no content, this would have no value if the command is executed.

> Typography plugin’s [changelog][1], is it sensible to assume this plugin
> is getting a version bump?

[0]: <https://notion.so/TinyMCE-6-4-Bill-of-materials-BOM-885a34e3b9884be0b69cd30eba7c618b?d=5267c02d507140c2882a18c2a9c7c753#0067a51f89bc45f1a99cc1b80a6e7a39>

[1]: <https://github.com/tinymce/typography/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>
////

=== Checklist 2.0.3

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Checklist** premium plugin.

**Checklist** 2.0.3 includes the following fix

////
To quote my [comment, left on the TinyMCE 6.4 BoM][2] in Notion

> What changes were made to the Checklist plugin? The [changelog][3]
> contains no entries beyond 2022-11-23 and the only [commits this
> year][4] have been dependabot bumps or back-end changes.

[2]: <https://notion.so/TinyMCE-6-4-Bill-of-materials-BOM-885a34e3b9884be0b69cd30eba7c618b?d=a1149ea94c2e459b80773fa2e59a6cc6#e826f887f0654bafb3ec0fdcb1659385>

[3]: <https://github.com/tinymce/santa/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[4]: <https://github.com/tinymce/santa/commits/main>
////

For information on the **Checklist** plugin, see: xref:checklist.adoc[Checklist].

> === Merge Tags 1.2.0

Reviewer 7: Merge Tags 1.2.0 is the latest release. Probably there is a typo in that document.

> === Merge Tags 1.2.0

Author: ```suggestion
=== Merge Tags 1.2.1
```

> === Merge Tags 1.2.0

Reviewer 6: Mergetags 1.2.1 was released for 6.4.1, there was an update to the year of the license header.

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge Tags** premium plugin.

**Merge Tags** 1.2.0 includes the following change.

==== The mceMergeTag command now preserves the selected content as a plain text and wraps it in a merge tag prefix and suffix if the content length exceeds the limit.

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9444

> In previous versions of {productname}, `mceMergeTag's` would not preserve the selected content within the merge tag `prefix` and `suffix` in some events.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, ``mceMergeTag``'s would not preserve the selected content within the merge tag `prefix` and `suffix` in some events.
```

> In previous versions of {productname}, `mceMergeTag's` would not preserve the selected content within the merge tag `prefix` and `suffix` in some events.

Reviewer 8: Please use the suggestion feature to make the replacement easier - there's a lot of tweaks and changes that will need to happen, aiding Karl in this process will be much appreciated

> In previous versions of {productname}, `mceMergeTag's` would not preserve the selected content within the merge tag `prefix` and `suffix` in some events.

Author: @vpyshnenko A variation of the above suggestion and suggestions from the team has been applied.

As a consequence, when the user applied the trailing suffix `}}` to the end of the content, the selected content wrapped within the `mceMergeTag` would not be preserved as plain text.  This would occur in specifically in instances when the `mceMergeTag` content length exceeded the character limit set by {productname}.

> To fix this issue, improvements to the `mceMergeTag` commands were introduced with the release of {productname} 6.4, that focused on adding a new feature that impacts the way text_patterns handle specific cases such as when `mceMergeTag's` exceed the character limit set by {productname}. These improvements now wrap any content that exceeds the `mceMergeTag` limit, by converting the content into *plain text* whilst encapsulating it in the `prefix` and `suffix`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To fix this issue, improvements to the `mceMergeTag` commands were introduced with the release of {productname} 6.4, that focused on adding a new feature that impacts the way text_patterns handle specific cases such as when ``mceMergeTag``'s exceed the character limit set by {productname}. These improvements now wrap any content that exceeds the `mceMergeTag` limit, by converting the content into *plain text* whilst encapsulating it in the `prefix` and `suffix`.
```

As a result of these improvements, the `mceMergeTag` command now preserves the selected content as a plain text and wraps it in a merge tag `prefix` and `suffix` as expected.

[NOTE]

> Any content that is covered into plain text that exceeds the `mceMergeTag` character limit rules, will not be converted into an official `mceMergeTag`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If any content is embraced with a merge tag prefix and suffix but exceeds the character limit for merge tag content length, it will not be converted into an official merge tag.
```

> Any content that is covered into plain text that exceeds the `mceMergeTag` character limit rules, will not be converted into an official `mceMergeTag`.

Reviewer 7: If any content is embraced with a merge tag prefix and suffix but exceeds the character limit for merge tag content length, it will not be converted into an official merge tag.

[9]: <https://github.com/tinymce/pillow/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[10]: <https://github.com/tinymce/pillow/commits/main>
////

For information on the **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-mediaembed.adoc[Introduction to Enhanced Media Embed].

=== Spell Checker Pro 3.2.0

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spell Checker Pro** premium plugin.

**Spell Checker Pro** 3.2.0 includes the following fixes, additions, and improvements.

////
To quote my [comment, left on the TinyMCE 6.4 BoM][11] in Notion

> What changes were made to the Enhanced Media Embed plugin? The
> [changelog][12] contains no entries beyond 2022-09-08 and the only [commits
> this year][13] have been dependabot bumps or back-end changes.

[11]: <https://notion.so/TinyMCE-6-4-Bill-of-materials-BOM-885a34e3b9884be0b69cd30eba7c618b?d=40e8ab59323f4319bfbb83898a3fe18c#0c32239916564963850ca08c2ab4f112>

[12]: <https://github.com/tinymce/powerspell/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[13]: <https://github.com/tinymce/powerspell/commits/main>
////

> For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[INtroduction to Spell Checker Pro].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Introduction to Spell Checker Pro].
```

////
To quote my [comment, left on the TinyMCE 6.4 BoM][11] in Notion

> What changes were made to the Advanced Code Premium plugin? The
> [changelog][12] contains the below:
> New button to copy the current dialog content. #TINY-9525
> New buttons to increase and decrease the font size in the dialog. #TINY-9526
> New button to toggle dark mode. #TINY-9527
> New button to toggle fullscreen. #TINY-9529

[14]: <https://github.com/tinymce/advcode/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md>

[15]: <https://github.com/tinymce/advcode/commits/main>
////

[[accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Premium Skins and Icon Packs**.

=== Premium Skins and Icon Packs

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** release includes the following updates:

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** were rebuilt to pull in the changes also incorporated into the default {productname} 6.4 skin, Oxide.

For information on using premium skins and icon packs, see: xref:premium-skins-and-icons.adoc[Premium Skins and Icon Packs].

> [[improvement]]
> == Improvement

Author: ```suggestion
[[improvements]]
== Improvements
```

> {productname} 6.4 also includes the following improvement:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.4 also includes the following improvements:
```

Reviewer 8: Arguably the heading should be plural as well, since the other headings (additions, changes) are.

=== Direct invalid child text nodes of list elements will be wrapped in list item elements.

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-4818

Invalid child nodes were throwing a `Uncaught TypeError:` when `<ol>` tags directly included a text node. This `TypeError` would not allow the user to `Tab` a text node while nested within `<ol>/<li>` HTML tags.

> Improvements were made to add a content filter for lists within {productname} 6.4. This improvement meant that any _invalid child nodes_ nested within `<li>` elements would be wrapped with this filter to avoid the `Uncaught TypeError:`.

Reviewer 8: This takes the bug report too literally. Tab is only the way it's described in the report; the bug we should focus on in the release notes is the indent feature.

> Invalid child nodes were throwing a `Uncaught TypeError:` when `<ol>` tags directly included a text node. This `TypeError` would not allow the user to `Tab` a text node while nested within `<ol>/<li>` HTML tags.
> 
> Improvements were made to add a content filter for lists within {productname} 6.4. This improvement meant that any _invalid child nodes_ nested within `<li>` elements would be wrapped with this filter to avoid the `Uncaught TypeError:`.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, direct _invalid child text nodes_ of list elements are now wrapped in list item elements, which allow the user to now `Tab` nested text nodes that are within `<ol>/<li>` tags.

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when pressing `Tab` while the cursor is placed next to a `<li>` element, a console error would be un expectantly be thrown.

Improvements were made that added a content filter for lists within {productname} 6.4. This improvement meant that any _invalid child nodes_ nested within `<li>` elements would be wrapped with this filter to avoid the `Uncaught TypeError:`.

In {productname} 6.4, pressing `Tab` while the caret is nested within `<li>` tags, no longer throws a error to the console.
```

Author: @TheSpyder Please see above suggested changes and improvements to the documentation for this.

Author: @TheSpyder moved this to the new review, as the suggestion is outdated.

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== Templates will be parsed before preview and insertion to make preview consistent with inserted template content and prevent XSS

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9244
In previous versions of {productname}, templates were being parsed before `preview` and `insertion` to make preview consistent with content being inserted into the template to prevent Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) issues.

> As a consequence, the Templates plugin would not automatically format or sanitise the HTML passed to it as templates. This means that when previewing templates, the content may look different compared to when it is actually inserted into the editor. This can be a security issue, as unsanitised HTML can allow for Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), which can be harmful.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As a consequence, the Templates plugin would not automatically format or sanitise the HTML passed to it as templates. This means that when previewing templates, the content may look different compared to when it is actually inserted into the editor. This can be a security issue, as unsanitized HTML can allow for Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), which can be harmful.
```

> To prevent this from happening, {productname} made improvements to the Template plugin that now sanitises content when retrieving preview content, and again before running `editor.dom.create` on it during the template insertion action. By doing this, all preview content will now match the template when it is inserted into the editor, which removed the possibility of any XSS issues arrising.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To prevent this from happening, {productname} made improvements to the Template plugin that now sanitises content when retrieving preview content, and again before running `editor.dom.create` on it during the template insertion action. By doing this, all preview content will now match the template when it is inserted into the editor, which removed the possibility of any XSS issues arising.
```

> In {productname} 6.4, Templates are now parsed before preview and insertion to make preview consistent with inserted template content and prevent XSS from occuring.

Reviewer 8: This only seems to restate the problem, which I'm not convinced was actually the problem (I thought the issue was we _didn't_ parse the templates).

Either the start of this entry is wrong, or this line is. I'm not sure which.

Reviewer 9: Typo - occuring to occurring

Author: @TheSpyder @ShiridiGandham The above content has been replaced with new content to fix this issue.

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== Pressing backspace in an empty line now preserves formatting in a previous empty line

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9454
In previous versions of {productname}, pressing `backspace` in an empty line would not preserve previously applied formatting to the previous line.

As a consequence, when backspacing from an empty block from another empty block within {productname}, the editor would lose the preserved formatting for the previous block element.

> Its worth noting that `_this action is only excpected for when content is inserted into a `br[data-mce-bogus]` empty block. This is because the br[data-mce-bogus] tag is programmed to reset the formatting to the default setting for a empty block such as the `br`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Its worth noting that _this action is only expected for when content is inserted into a `br[data-mce-bogus]` empty block_. This is because the `br[data-mce-bogus]` tag is programmed to reset the formatting to the default setting for a empty block such as the `br`.
```

Author: @mkzhx Closing this suggestion as its covered in the suggested replacements below, with @TheSpyder suggested edits.

> Its worth noting that `_this action is only excpected for when content is inserted into a `br[data-mce-bogus]` empty block. This is because the br[data-mce-bogus] tag is programmed to reset the formatting to the default setting for a empty block such as the `br`.

Reviewer 8: I don't think the `` or the `_` make sense here. Or if they do, neither has an end which makes the formatting of this line weird.

Author: @TheSpyder - Closing this suggestion as its covered in the suggested replacements below.

[TIP]

> To avoid this, it is *important* to use a `backspace` instead of an `enter key` when moving from one empty block to another. This will ensure that the formatting of the previous block is preserved and the `br[data-mce-bogus]` tag is not inserted.

Reviewer 8: I don't think we can reasonably add user recommendations to developer release notes. And this whole entry seems weird - neither users nor developers should know (or care) about `data-mce-bogus`. That's a completely internal concept.

Author: @TheSpyder Closing this suggestion as its covered in the suggested replacements below.
Please review the below.

> To fix this issue, {productname} added improvements that now allow merge blocks to filter all block element decentants, such as the `br[data-mce-bogus]` block element, to ensure preservation of previously applied formatting is not removed from other block elements.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To fix this issue, {productname} added improvements that now allow merge blocks to filter all block element descendants, such as the `br[data-mce-bogus]` block element, to ensure preservation of previously applied formatting is not removed from other block elements.
```

Author: @mkzhx Closing this suggestion as its covered in the suggested replacements below as we have removed all instances of [date-mce-bogus] in this.

> In previous versions of {productname}, pressing `backspace` in an empty line would not preserve previously applied formatting to the previous line.
> 
> As a consequence, when backspacing from an empty block from another empty block within {productname}, the editor would lose the preserved formatting for the previous block element.
> Its worth noting that `_this action is only excpected for when content is inserted into a `br[data-mce-bogus]` empty block. This is because the br[data-mce-bogus] tag is programmed to reset the formatting to the default setting for a empty block such as the `br`.
> 
> [TIP]
> To avoid this, it is *important* to use a `backspace` instead of an `enter key` when moving from one empty block to another. This will ensure that the formatting of the previous block is preserved and the `br[data-mce-bogus]` tag is not inserted.
> 
> To fix this issue, {productname} added improvements that now allow merge blocks to filter all block element decentants, such as the `br[data-mce-bogus]` block element, to ensure preservation of previously applied formatting is not removed from other block elements.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, pressing backspace in an empty line now preserves formatting in a previous empty line.
> 
> // https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when hitting backspace, the deletion handler was found to be merging the current selected new line and the line above into one, by removing both, which resulted in them both being inserted then into a new line. 

Improvements were made to preserve the formatting when the backspace is "clicked",  from one empty block to another.

In {productname} 6.4, pressing backspace in an empty line now preserves the formatting in the previous empty line block.
```

Author: @mkzhx @TheSpyder Please review the above suggested change, and advise if you are happy for me to replace all suggestions above.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when pressing backspace in an empty line with another empty line containing inline formats above it, the deletion handler was found to be first removing both lines and then inserting a newline. As a consequence, the existing inline formats of the previous empty line was not preserved.

In {productname} 6.4, pressing backspace in an empty line now preserves the inline formats of the previous empty line.
```

> === Pressing enter inside the inputfontsize input would not move the focus back into the editor content

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
=== Pressing enter inside the `fontsizeinput` input would not move the focus back into the editor content
```
Changelog may also need to be updated to correct this.

Author: @brian-forte note for post-release.

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9598
During development for the new `fontsizeinput` toolbar item, an issue was found that by pressing enter inside the input field would not move the `focus` back into the {productname} editor body. 

As a consequence, any changes made to the font size within the new toolbar input field, would result in the user having no way to use the new font size within the editor.

After some improvements to the `fontsizeinput` toolbar item, pressing enter in the input field now sets the focus back to the {productname} editor viewport, which allows the new font size to be used. 

> In {productname} 6.4, pressing enter inside the `inputfontsize` input now returns the focus back to the editor content body.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.4, pressing enter inside the `fontsizeinput` input now returns the focus back to the editor content body.
```

> In {productname} 6.4, pressing enter inside the `inputfontsize` input now returns the focus back to the editor content body.

Reviewer 8: Is it `inputfontsize` or `fontsizeinput`? Something is wrong here.

Author: @spocke So if we change all instances of `inputfontsize` and replace with `inputfontinput` including the heading, we should be ok with the above suggested documentation?

Author: This has been corrected.

> === Pressing enter inside the inputfontsize input would not move the focus back into the editor content
> 
> // https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9598
> During development for the new `fontsizeinput` toolbar item, an issue was found that by pressing enter inside the input field would not move the `focus` back into the {productname} editor body. 
> 
> As a consequence, any changes made to the font size within the new toolbar input field, would result in the user having no way to use the new font size within the editor.
> 
> After some improvements to the `fontsizeinput` toolbar item, pressing enter in the input field now sets the focus back to the {productname} editor viewport, which allows the new font size to be used. 
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, pressing enter inside the `inputfontsize` input now returns the focus back to the editor content body.
> // https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

Author: ```suggestion
=== Pressing enter inside the `fontsizeinput` would not move the focus back into the editor content

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9598
During development for the new `fontsizeinput` toolbar item, an issue was found that after pressing "enter" inside the input field would not move the `focus` back into the {productname} editor body. 

As a consequence, any changes made to the font size within the new `fontsizeinput` field, would mean that the user would have no way to apply the changes within the editor.

Improvements to the `fontsizeinput` toolbar item were made that corrected this issue, which now after pressing "enter" in the input field, the editor now sets the `focus` back to the {productname} body viewport, which allows the newly selected font size changes to be applied. 

In {productname} 6.4, pressing enter inside the `fontsizeinput` input now returns the focus back to the editor content body.
```

[[additions]]
== Additions

{productname} 6.4 also includes the following additions:

=== New tree component that can be used in dialog body panel

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9532

> A new tree component has been created to support the *Advanced Template* premium plugin that works in conjuction with a new tree dialog body panel.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
A new tree component has been created to support the *Advanced Template* premium plugin that works in conjunction with a new tree dialog body panel.
```

> A new tree component has been created to support the *Advanced Template* premium plugin that works in conjuction with a new tree dialog body panel.

Reviewer 8: I don't think we need to mention advanced template here. It makes it sound like the tree component requires a premium subscription, which isn't true.

Author: @TheSpyder Closing this, as It has been covered in the below suggestion.

> This tree component is limited to *one* level and is used in the dialog body panel to allow users to organize templates into levels for better UI. The tree component is designed to create a visual representation of the hierarchical structure for the template system, which allows users to easily identify the various templates and levels within each catagory, giving users the ability to quickly and easily navigate through the templates, and select the right one for their needs.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This tree component is limited to *one* level and is used in the dialog body panel to allow users to organize templates into levels for better UI. The tree component is designed to create a visual representation of the hierarchical structure for the template system, which allows users to easily identify the various templates and levels within each category, giving users the ability to quickly and easily navigate through the templates, and select the right one for their needs.
```

Author: @hamza0867 Thank you for the above, I have put together a new suggestion to replace the existing paragraph.
Closing this dialog so we can consolidate the feedback in one section.

Reviewer 10: @kemister85 where is this new paragraph please ?

Author: Closing this conversation as it has been resolved in the new reviewed suggestions.

> This new tree component is an important addition to the new Premium Plugin: *Advanced Templates*, which is now available as a premium plugin with editors running {productname} v6.4+.

Reviewer 10: I don't think this needs to be mentioned as I said in the comment above

> // https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

Author: ```suggestion
=== New tree component that can be used in dialog body panel

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9532
A new tree component has been added to {productname}, that can be used in custom plugins and models.

The new tree component is designed to create a visual representation of the hierarchical structure of items such as, showcasing folders and the files within these folders, similar to how a directory works which allows users to easily identify various structure levels within set categories, such as how the new `advtemplate` works.

This new tree component is an important addition to {productname} which will be used in several features with up and coming releases in the future.
```

Author: @TheSpyder @hamza0867 
Please review the above suggested change and advise if this is more accurate.

=== renderUI property in the Theme type can now return a Promise <RenderResult> instead of RenderResult

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9556
In earlier versions of {productname}, the properties set for the `renderUI`, was causing issues with the theme rendering load times. As a result {productname} 6.4 added fixes to the `renderUI` properties to correct this issue.

> The changes saw the introduction of a new `renderUI` property called `Promise<RenderResult>` , which allows the current theme type to return a `Promise<RenderResult>` instead of the origional  `RenderResult`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The changes saw the introduction of a new `renderUI` property called `Promise<RenderResult>` , which allows the current theme type to return a `Promise<RenderResult>` instead of the original  `RenderResult`.
```

> In earlier versions of {productname}, the properties set for the `renderUI`, was causing issues with the theme rendering load times. As a result {productname} 6.4 added fixes to the `renderUI` properties to correct this issue.
> 
> The changes saw the introduction of a new `renderUI` property called `Promise<RenderResult>` , which allows the current theme type to return a `Promise<RenderResult>` instead of the origional  `RenderResult`.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, the `renderUI` property in the Theme type, now returns a `Promise <RenderResult>`.

Reviewer 8: This makes it sound far more complicated than it is. And "properties" is not at all the correct way to describe the change.

```suggestion
In earlier versions of {productname} the `renderUI` function which initiates theme rendering did not wait for the CSS to load. This could cause race conditions with other parts of the editor or customer integrations. As a result {productname} 6.4 now waits for a CSS load event before returning from the `renderUI` function.

This process necessitates changing the return type of the `renderUI` function; it now returns a `Promise<RenderResult>`. The type is `Promise<RenderResult> | RenderResult` for compatibility, but the silver theme always returns a promise.

This change should have no impact on customer integrations, even those implementing custom themes.
```

Author: This suggestion has been added and merged into the documentation. TY

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== New isEditable API to editor.selection that returns true or false if the current selection is editable

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9462
// bforte this seems to be connected to https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-1888
In previous versions of {productname}, elements that where within the `editor.selection` could be modified, if they sat within a HTML document body with the properties set to `contentEditable = false`.

As a consequence, any `selection | node`, that was encapsulate within the editor body, could be affected by this such as:

Expected output example:

[source, HTML]
----
<p>Try to insert content here</p>
----

> After executing a `onclick` event within the current `selection | node` using `<button onclick="tinymce.activeEditor.insertContent('text')">insertContent</button>`, the output would modify the existing `contentEditable = false;` element, which should not be possible.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
After executing an `onclick` event within the current `selection | node` using `<button onclick="tinymce.activeEditor.insertContent('text')">insertContent</button>`, the output would modify the existing `contentEditable = false;` element, which should not be possible.
```

[source, HTML]
----

> <p>Try to inserttextcontent here</p>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
<p>Try to insert text content here</p>
```

> In previous versions of {productname}, elements that where within the `editor.selection` could be modified, if they sat within a HTML document body with the properties set to `contentEditable = false`.
> 
> As a consequence, any `selection | node`, that was encapsulate within the editor body, could be affected by this such as:
> 
> Expected output example:
> 
> [source, HTML]
> ----
> <p>Try to insert content here</p>
> ----
> 
> After executing a `onclick` event within the current `selection | node` using `<button onclick="tinymce.activeEditor.insertContent('text')">insertContent</button>`, the output would modify the existing `contentEditable = false;` element, which should not be possible.
> 
> [source, HTML]
> ----
> <p>Try to inserttextcontent here</p>
> ----
> 
> The new additions and improvements with the introduction of {productname} 6.4, include a new `isEditable` API been added to the `editor.selection` which now blocks the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command when the contents return a `true` value if the editor detects the element is a `contentEditable = false;` element in a `contentEditable = false;` root.
> 
> As a result, any `editor.selection` elements that return a `true` value when a specified element is `contentEditable = true;`, will call the new `isEditable` API to execute the new blocker.

Reviewer 8: There is a lot of stuff here that is not relevant to demonstrating the bug. I want our release notes to be clear and concise. It looks like you've gotten hung up describing how the QA fiddle operates, not the actual details of the bug as covered in the JIRA docs field.
```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when the body was set to `contentEditable = false` content could still be inserted with the `insertContent` API.

Example content:

[source, HTML]
----
<body contenteditable=false><p>Try to insert content here</p></body>
----

After selecting the space between "insert" and "content", executing `tinymce.activeEditor.insertContent('text')` would incorrectly insert the text which should not be possible.

[source, HTML]
----
<body contenteditable=false><p>Try to inserttextcontent here</p></body>
----

{productname} 6.4 includes a new `isEditable` method on the `editor.selection` API which is used to block the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command when the selection covers a noneditable element.
```

Author: This suggestion has been added into the documentation.

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

> === New isEditable API to editor.dom that returns true or false if the specified node is editable

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
=== New `editor.dom.isEditable` and `editor.selection.isEditable` APIs that returns true or false if the specified node is editable
```

Author: @mkzhx I will have to check this one, as the `title` for this has been set by the `dev` and was already been released in the Community Release docs.  Happy to change, but need more clarification from @brian-forte on the required changes needed.

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9462

> In previous versions of {productname}, elements within the editor.dom could be _modified_ regardless if they were assigned to be `contentEditable = true;` or `contentEditable = false;`.

Reviewer 6: This does not sound right. Previous behaviour is that elements within a **noneditable root** could be **modified by the insertContent API**.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, elements within a noneditable root could be unexpectedly modified by the `editor.insertContent` API and the `mceInsertContent` command.
```

Author: @mkzhx Let me know if you are happy with this, we are trying to avoid using `noneditable` or `editable` as a reference in documentation, and replace with `contentEditable = false;` or `contentEditable = true;`, for consistency.

Reviewer 6: Yep I'm good with it if that's the standard.

> As a consequence all elements within the root `body` set to `contentEditable = false;` value, were affected by the issue.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

> The new additions and improvements with the introduction of {productname} 6.4, include a new `isEditable` API been added to the `editor.dom` which now blocks the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command when the contents return a `true` value if the editor detects the element is a `contentEditable = false;` in a `contentEditable = false;` root.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The new additions and improvements with the introduction of {productname} 6.4, include new `editor.dom.isEditable` and `editor.selection.isEditable` APIs which now block the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command if the selection is in a noneditable part of the root contents.
```

> === New isEditable API to editor.dom that returns true or false if the specified node is editable
> 
> // https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9462
> In previous versions of {productname}, elements within the editor.dom could be _modified_ regardless if they were assigned to be `contentEditable = true;` or `contentEditable = false;`.
> 
> As a consequence all elements within the root `body` set to `contentEditable = false;` value, were affected by the issue.
> 
> The new additions and improvements with the introduction of {productname} 6.4, include a new `isEditable` API been added to the `editor.dom` which now blocks the `editor.insertContent` API and `mceInsertContent` command when the contents return a `true` value if the editor detects the element is a `contentEditable = false;` in a `contentEditable = false;` root.
> 
> As a result, any elements that return a `true` value when a specified element is `contentEditable = true;`, will call the new `isEditable` API to action the new blocker to ensure `contentEditable = false;` elements cannot be modified when they are within a root that is set to `contentEditable = false`.
> 

Reviewer 8: This is not what was fixed in TINY-9462, it was just a new API that was added as a part of it. I've added it to my suggested change for the item above.
```suggestion
```

Author: Closing this as the documentation has been updated.

> As a result, any elements that return a `true` value when a specified element is `contentEditable = true;`, will call the new `isEditable` API to action the new blocker to ensure `contentEditable = false;` elements cannot be modified when they are within a root that is set to `contentEditable = false`.

Reviewer 6: Not sure about the meaning of this paragraph, think it mostly repeats the previous paragraph.
```suggestion
```

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== New setText and setIcon methods added to menu button and toolbar button apis
// bforte this is related to https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-1900
// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9268

> Previous versions of {productname}, the menu button APIs did not behave as expected with the parent `icon` or `text` selection. As a consequence, the menu button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what `icon` or `text` the user had selected within the menubar.

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, it was not possible to change the text or icon of a toolbar button after it has been set for the first time. As a consequence, the menu and toolbar button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what the user had selected within the menubar or toolbar.
```

> Previous versions of {productname}, the menu button APIs did not behave as expected with the parent `icon` or `text` selection. As a consequence, the menu button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what `icon` or `text` the user had selected within the menubar.

Author: @hamza0867 How does the above suggestion sound?

> Previous versions of {productname}, the menu button APIs did not behave as expected with the parent `icon` or `text` selection. As a consequence, the menu button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what `icon` or `text` the user had selected within the menubar.

Author: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, it was not possible to change the `text` or `icon` of a toolbar button after it had been set for the first time. As a consequence, the menu and toolbar button API, would not extend or update the parent `icon` or `text` directly, based upon what the user had selected within the menubar or toolbar.
```

In {productname} 6.4, two new additions were added to the menu button API.

. Added `setText` and `setIcon` properties to both the toolbar button `api`, and menu button `api`.
. Provided the menu button `api` property as an *argument* which will fetch a function that will allow menu items to change the `icon` or `text` of the parent menu button.

As a result, in {productname} 6.4, menu items can change based on the parent menu button `api` properties.

> === New highlight_on_focus option which enables highlighting the content area on focus

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
=== New `highlight_on_focus` option which enables highlighting the content area on focus
```

// bforte this is related to https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-1893
// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9277

> In previous versions of {productname}, when using `devtools` such as `Chrome devTools`, the editor content area would not render the `focus` border when the editor was `infocus`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, when using developer tools such as Chrome DevTools, the editor content area would not render the `focus` border when the editor was `infocus`.
```

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== New text-size-increase and text-size-decrease icons

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9530

The {productname} package files have been updated with two new icons that enable users to increase or decrease the size of text in the Advanced Code Editor. The new icons are the `text-size-increase` and `text-size-decrease` icons. These new icons have been added to make it easier for users to adjust the size of the text within the code editor while making it easier to read and understand the code they are writing. 

.Example of `textSizeIncrease` and `textSizeDecrease` integration within {productname}.
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea",
	advcode_inline: true,
  plugins: [
    "code", 'advcode', 
  ],
  toolbar: "textSizeIncrease textSizeDecrease"
});
----
[NOTE]
This plugin feature is only available for paid {productname} subscriptions.

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== New xss_sanitization option to allow for XSS sanitization to be disabled

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9600

> Currently, we use the `DOMPurify` library to sanitize HTML content when it is inserted into the editor in order to remove unsafe tags & attributes in order to prevent XSS (cross-site scripting). However, customers in some situations have found that the HTML sanitization from the `DOMPurify` library is changing their content in undesired ways. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Currently, we use the DOMPurify library to sanitize HTML content when it is inserted into the editor in order to remove unsafe tags & attributes in order to prevent XSS (cross-site scripting). However, customers in some situations have found that the HTML sanitization from the DOMPurify library is changing their content in undesired ways. 
```

// https://notion.so/tinycloud/Four-words-to-live-by-96e307110aaa4137b94f9ba12874d480

=== Added top right close 'x' button of the modal dialogs to keyboard navigation

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9520
In previous versions of {productname}, the top right close 'x' button within the modal dialogs were not keyboard-navigable by the Tab key.

With the release of {productname} 6.4, various changes have now made it possible for modal dialogues to be navigated with the Tab key. This is accomplished by adding a `Tabbing.config` to the close 'x' button. The `Tabbing.config` is an object that describes the sequence of focusable elements, their `tabindex` and the `initial focus` within the dialog when it is opened. In addition an optional `firstTabstop` property has also been added to the `Tabbing.config` to specify which element receives focus first when the dialog is opened.

This update enables users to more easily and quickly access the modal dialogues within {productname}, which includes dialogs such as:

* Search and Replace
* Accessibility Checker
* Table Properties
* Help
* Source Code
* URL
* Image
* Url Modal Dialog toolbar buttons. 

[NOTE]

> Its worth nothing that the expected result for the Alert and Confrim dialogs is that the `initial focus` is set on the most appropriate button when the dialog is opened; for example, the “OK” button for Alert dialogs, and the “Yes” button for Confirm dialogs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its worth nothing that the expected result for the Alert and Confirm dialogs is that the `initial focus` is set on the most appropriate button when the dialog is opened; for example, the “OK” button for Alert dialogs, and the “Yes” button for Confirm dialogs.
```

Fixes were made to ensure that `dragging | dropping` onto `contenteditable="false"` element targets on all browsers is `disabled`. This also includes when the drop target cursor is inside the `contenteditable="true"` element, or just before it.

{productname} 6.4, now prevents the user from having the ability to drag and drop any descendants of a `contenteditable=false element` within another `contenteditable="false"` element.

=== Checkmark did not show in menu colorswatches

// https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9395
Previous versions of {productname} the known issue, (_https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.3-release-notes/#checkmark-over-the-current-background-color-is-not-displayed-when-inline-formatting-is-applied-in-a-certain-order[checkmark-over-the-current-background-color-is-not-displayed-when-inline-formatting-is-applied-in-a-certain-order]_) was identified. As a consequence, when text was formatted in the following order, the *checkmark* over the currently active background color would not display in the Background color swatch menu:

. When the user appled inline formatting, such as *bold* or _Italic_.

> . After applying a forground(text) color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. After applying a foreground(text) color.
```

==== It wasn’t possible to create a new line immediately after a pasted Mention.
//#TINY-9432

Previously, if a _Mention_ was added to a {productname} editor; and the _Mention_ was selected; copied or cut; and then pasted on to a new line, attempting to then create a new line by pressing the **Return** key failed.

As well, and depending on the host browser, the insertion point would not present in the editor until it was moved, by clicking elsewhere in the editor.

This could be worked-around by moving the insertion point and then moving it back to immediately after the _Mention_ or by typing any character and then deleting that character.

With this update, pressing **Return** immediately following the pasting of a _Mention_ string in a {productname} editor creates a new line, as expected.

Also, the insertion point displays in all browsers immediately following a pasted _Mention_ string, also as expected.

For information on the **Mentions** plugin, see xref:mentions.adoc[Mentions].

=== Spell Checker Pro 3.2.1

The {productname} 6.4 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spell Checker Pro** premium plugin.

**Spell Checker Pro** 3.2.1 includes the following fix.

> ==== Spelling plugin can crash the service
> //#TINY-9391
> 
> Previously, the Spell Checker Pro service could be crashed by large requests or by the Spell Checker Pro server not being able to manage the number of requests made in a given time. This latter issue could be exacerbated by the plugin immediately re-sending a failed query.
> 
> With this update, Spell Checker Pro now caches outgoing and in-queue requests; filters duplicate requests; and retrieves returned responses for duplicate queries from the cache.
> 
> This both limits and reduces the number of requests made to the Spell Checker Pro service, improving the reliability of the service and the plugin.
> 
> For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Introduction to Spell Checker Pro].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Spelling plugin can crash the service
//#TINY-9391

Previously, the Spell Checker Pro plugin would request each word in the content, and repeatedly request these words every time the spellchecker was activated. This resulted in duplicate words being requested during regular use of the plugin.

With this update, Spell Checker Pro now only sends requests to the spelling service for each unique word and caches these results for later retrieval. This greatly reduces the amount and size of requests sent by the plugin during regular use.

For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Introduction to Spell Checker Pro].
```
We don't want to describe how users can crash our service on old versions, this is a security vulnerability. Instead we should just outline the measures taken to reduce the volume and how it may affect self-hosted customers using the docker service (though that might not yet be documented).

As a result to the fix, while the *FloatingToolbarButton* `focus` is initiated, the toolbar now focuses correctly without stealing `focus` when `skipFocus: 'boolean' is set.

=== New font_size_input_default_unit option allow to use of numbers without a unit in fontsizeinput and have them parsed with the default unit, if it is not defined the default is pt
//#TINY-9585

In early development before the release of the 'new toolbar component' ("fontsizeinput"), users had to define the unit of measurement (UOM), when setting their font size by direct input into the 'new toolbar component' input field.

The new `toolbar: "font_size_input_default_unit": "<UOM>"`, option now allows users to use (values) ie, (numbers) without having to manually input the unit of measurement (UOM) after they define the `value`.

This means that users can now specify the UOM in the `tinymce.init` config by configuring the UOM value by changing the default value:* `+pt+` to one of the below possible values:* `+px+`, `+em+`, `+cm+`, `+mm+`

[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",

>     toolbar: "fontsizeinput", "font_size_input_default_unit": "em",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    toolbar: "fontsizeinput",
    font_size_input_default_unit: "em"
```

As a result, any `contenteditable="false"` elements that are nested within another `contenteditable="false"` element root that are nested within `table` elements, can no longer be edited in {productname} 6.4.

=== Textareas with scrollbars in dialogs would not render rounded corners correctly on some browsers
//#TINY-9331

In previous versions of {productname}, the source code visible UI border would not render correctly in some browsers.

As a consequence, when viewing text-areas that contain `scrollbars` within dialogs, the `focus` visible border was not rendering the corners inside the dialog.

To correct this issue, {productname} 6.4, introduced a new text-area wrapper that fixes the issues with the `border-color, radius, style and width` that directly affects the `focus` render element for the dialog.  In addition `overflow: hidden`, has been added to clip the scrollbars to the border-radius.

As a result, the `focus` dialog border now renders correctly in {productname} 6.4.

> === It was possible to open links inside the editor if the editor root was noneditable
> //#TINY-9470
> 
> Setting the `contenteditable` property to the editor root to `false` such as the below example, would result in `contenteditable="false"` elements meant that `links` could be navigable.
> 
> [source, js]
> ----
> setup: (editor) => {
>     editor.on('preinit', () => {
>         editor.getBody().contenteditable="false";
>     });
> }
> ----
> 
> As a result, links could be opened within the `iframe` element.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, links can no longer be navigable by clicking on them while they are inside a `contenteditable="false"` root, after a blocker was implemented to avoid this event `action`.
> 
> In {productname} 6.4, all links in a `contenteditable="false"` now behave as expected.

Author: ```suggestion
=== It was possible to open links inside the editor if the editor root was noneditable
//#TINY-9470

While setting the editor root to `contenteditable="false"`, It was discovered that links could still be opened, even in instances were the editor was setup as the below:

.Example setup
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",
    plugins: [
    ],
    init_instance_callback: (editor) => {
      editor.getBody().contentEditable = 'false';
    }
});
----

As a result, {productname} added some changes that now block links from being clicked while inside a `contenteditable="false"` root.
```

Author: @tiny-ben-tran 👆?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== It was possible to open links inside the editor if the editor root was noneditable
//#TINY-9470
While setting the editor root to `contenteditable="false"`, it was discovered that links could still be opened, even in instances where the editor was setup as the below:
.Example setup
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",
    plugins: [
    ],
    init_instance_callback: (editor) => {
      editor.getBody().contentEditable = 'false';
    }
});
----
As a result, {productname} now blocks links from being selected while inside a `contenteditable="false"` root.
```
